{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\qc\b\f0\fs20\par
\fs24 IT 354 - Advanced Web Application Development - Spring 2017\fs20\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\par
Class Time: \b0 Monday & Wednesday - 2:00 pm to 3:15 pm\par
\par
\b Class Location: \b0 Stevenson Hall (STV) 104\par
\b\par
Instructor: \b0 Kevin Schaefer\par
\b\par
Office:\b0  Old Main 204\par
\par
\b Email:\tab\cf1\ul\b0 keschae@ilstu.edu\cf0\ulnone  \par
\b\par
IT Main Office: \b0 438-8338\par
\par
\b Off-Campus Office Phone Number:\b0  838-1804 or 662-4090 x202\par
\par
\b Office Hours: \b0 On class days, 3:30 PM - 4 PM, please notify me if coming. \par
Other times available by appointment.\b\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\b0\par
\b Required Online References:\b0  Many will be provided\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\b Recommended Software:\par
\b0\par
Programmers editor \endash  Atom, Netbeans, Notepad++, PHP/Webstorm\par
Graphics editor \endash  Fireworks, Gimp\par
Chrome and Firefox  \par
FTP client \endash  Filezilla\par
Git client\par
PHP Development Server software WAMP (MAMP for Apple)\par
MySQL Client - Heidi or Navicat Lite\par
\par
\par
\b Teaching Assistant/Grader:\b0  Suguru Tokuda\par
\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\b Course Website:\b0\par
This course will be managed using ReggieNet. The course website will contain all the course materials like presentation materials, access information, announcements and grades. ReggieNet will also be used to electronically submit all assignments and the other assessment items.\par
\par
\b Course Description:\b0\par
This course introduces popular technologies used in creating web applications. Advanced web applications make use of data and services from a variety of online sources and are able to provide users with functions and features through familiar modern HTML interfaces. The course is roughly divided into 3 parts. \par
\par
\b Part 1\b0  - We will briefly focus on some of the new front end web development standards related to creating web pages. Familiarity with some new tools and concepts such as CSS preprocessors and other shorthand markup languages. After a brief exploration of front end technologies, you will learn about the popular Bootstrap framework often used for responsive designs. Use of source version control via Git will be covered in detail. Having a proper source version control workflow can be extremely helpful in work with groups. PHP/MySQL will also be introduced during this part of the course. Students will be introduced to using a PHP development environment with debugging capabilities. \par
\b Part 2\b0  - The second part of the course will include further application of PHP and the usage of PHP frameworks. We will spend a considerable amount of time with PHP and CodeIgniter framework. Also covered will be use of jQuery, AJAX and possibly other current JavaScript oriented technologies.  Fundamentals of XML and JSON data structure formats will be explored. \par
\b Part 3\b0  \endash  During the third part of the course we will cover the use of web services and APIs and creating web services to be used by web applications or mobile applications. Finally, mobile development will be explored using the flexible and web developer oriented Cordova/PhoneGap technology. Angular/ionic may be introduced in this section as time allows.\par
\par
\b Throughout the class, our emphasis will be on responsive mobile-first compatible designs and choosing elegant, clean, structured framework-leveraged solutions over convoluted ones.\par
\par
\par
Student Objectives:\b0\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\sl360\slmult1 This course is designed to enable the student to:\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\sa144\sl360\slmult1\tx360 1.\tab Create W3C standards-compliant websites that are mobile device compatible.\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\sa144\sl360\slmult1 2.\tab Understand and utilize a server side scripting language for dynamic websites with database interaction.\par
3.\tab Implement JavaScript and related libraries to enhance the user experience. Some student projects may utilize JavaScript on the server side via NodeJS.\par
4.\tab Understand when to utilize XML or JSON for data storage or exchange.\par
5.\tab Understand and implement basic AJAX functionality\par
6.\tab Use well documented APIs from popular websites. Implement functionality using various JavaScript libraries, third-party Web services and standard APIs.\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\sa144\sl360\slmult1\tx360 7.\tab Create websites optimized for the mobile devices\par
8.\tab Introduce mobile application development utilizing Cordova/PhoneGap\par
9.\tab Introduce mobile application development utilizing Angular and Ionic\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\par
\b Consulting the Instructor:\b0\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\tx8766 You are encouraged to make use of my time and experience (during office hours or other available times) to discuss the course materials or to get help. By getting your questions answered, you can achieve a better understanding of the materials and save time. Apart from office hours, you can talk to me about any course-related issues before or after each class. I am also available for students outside class (by appointment) to discuss any individual course-related issues. You can reach me on my cell phone which is listed above. I will try my best to be available to help you succeed in this course, but I have to see you give a good effort.\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\b Student Expectations:\b0\par
Students are expected to read all the required course materials. \b You should make every attempt to attend all the class lectures. Attendance will be taken and it will be factored into the 5% participation grade.\b0  I spend a lot of time preparing for this course so I expect you to be there. You are also expected to complete all assignments and come prepared for the exams. Semester Projects provide unique opportunities to further the learning experience from the course and you are encouraged to make use of the various learning activities to advance your knowledge of advanced web development.\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\b Course Requirements:\b0\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\sa144\sl360\slmult1\tx360\f1\'b7\tab\ul\f0 Assignments \ulnone - There will be approximately 5-7 programming assignments. Graduates may be expected to complete extra assignments as directed.\par
\f1\'b7\tab\ul\f0 Labs \ulnone - These will be short tutorials/how-tos often from the Internet that you will be expected to work through in order to gain an understanding of a particular technology. These will typically take 2-4 hours to complete and you will receive some questions to answer to prove your understanding of the topic. Reading assignments from various websites and ebooks will be assigned throughout.\par
\f1\'b7\tab\ul\f0 Semester project \ulnone - Undergraduate students are expected to choose a partner for the semester project. If if you would like to work independently, please talk to me for approval. Graduate students have to complete the project as individual work. More details about the project will be given later in the first few weeks of the course.\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\sa144\sl360\slmult1\f1\'b7\tab\ul\f0 Midterm exam \ulnone - There will be a midterm exam around the middle of March depending on our progress topics covered. The topics for the midterm exam will be announced later in the semester.\par
\f1\'b7\tab\ul\f0 Final exam \ulnone - There will be a final exam during the finals week.\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\tx360\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\b Course Points:\b0\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\tx4320\ul Undergraduates/Graduates\ulnone\par
Assignments & Labs - 40%\par
Partitipation, Attendance - 5%\par
Midterm - 15%\par
Semester Project - 25%\par
Final Exam - 15%\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\tx8766\ul Graduates:\ulnone  For students taking this class for graduate credits, additional requirements may be given to you to meet the graduate requirements.\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\b Grade Evaluation:\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\tx717\tx2109\b0 This list is the expected number of points for the semester. Actual point values may vary.\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\tx717\tx2160 A\tab 90 -100%\tab Outstanding and exemplary work\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\tx717\tx1389\tx2160 B\tab 80 - 89%\tab Strong performance, well above the minimum requirements\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\tx717\tx2160 C\tab 70 - 79%\tab Minimal expected level of performance\par
D\tab 60 - 69%\tab Performance below the minimum requirements\par
F\tab under 60%\tab Performance well below the minimum requirements\par
\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\b Submission Policies:\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\b0 All assignments are to be submitted on time, and unless specified otherwise, all assignments will be due at midnight of the due date. Penalty for late submission will be a deduction of 10% per day and up to 5 days after the assignment deadline. All assignments are to be submitted via ReggieNet unless specified otherwise by the instructor. There are no grace days for any of the course assignments unless specified otherwise.\par
\b\par
Makeup:\par
\b0 If you miss a test or a class activity, contact the instructor (call or send an email) as soon as possible to discuss the possibility of a makeup. A makeup may be denied, allowed with penalty, or allowed with no penalty depending on the reason. Expect to document the reason for missing a test or a major class activity. Whenever possible, permission to alter a test date or a class due date should be arranged in advance. In unusual circumstances, see the instructor for possible exceptions to any of these policies. Final exams will only be conducted during the University determined scheduled date and time. The final exam will not be offered earlier under any circumstances. There are no makeup opportunities for the midterm and final exams.\par
\par
\b Succeeding in this course:\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\tx8766\b0 I expect every student to aim for an A in this course. It is your responsibility to check your progress regularly to see how you are doing in the course.\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\b Lab Facilities:\b0\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1 The course will make use of the VMWare Virtual Desktop Infrastructure. You're not required to use these virtual machines but they may have a few software programs that you don't own personally such as the Adobe Suite. More details about the virtual desktop will be provided to you during the first couple of weeks of the semester. We will also utilize accounts on a Linux server with a typical LAMP stack and installed libraries.\par
\par
\b Academic Dishonesty:\b0\par
Knowingly turning in work that you did not do is plagiarism, the most common form of cheating. It is unacceptable in this course. Unless stated otherwise by the instructor, any work you turn in is to be YOUR INDIVIDUAL WORK. Any work from online sources, including code snippets, should be properly referenced. You may discuss assignment questions with your instructor ONLY. Do not work together unless you are specifically told otherwise.\par
\par
Any case of cheating will result in a minimum penalty of a zero on that particular assessment item and one-letter final course grade reduction. This applies to all the course participants in the given incident. For repeat occurrences or for dishonesty on exams, the penalty will be an F in the course and possible pursuit of further disciplinary action. All academic dishonesty will be reported to SDRS as required by university policy (see your student handbook).\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\b\i Bottom line: Do your own work!\b0\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\b\i0\par
Student Conduct:\b0\par
Disruptive behavior interferes with lectures, classroom and other learning activities. Such behavior in the classroom or other IT learning areas will not be tolerated. The instructor will warn a student \f2 the first time that their behavior is considered to be disruptive. A second instance of (any type of) disruptive behavior by the same student will result in the student receiving a grade of 'F' for the course.\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\i\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sl360\slmult1\b\i0\f0\par
Disability Concerns:\b0\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa144\sl360\slmult1\tx8766 Any student needing to arrange a reasonable accommodation for a documented disability and/or medical/mental health condition should contact Student Access and Accommodation Services at 350 Fell Hall, 438-5853 (voice), 438-8620 (TDD), or visit the StudentAccess.IllinoisState.edu website.\par
}
 